UML Editor Application Features

This section provides more details about each feature of this UML Editor Application.

Create a Class:
---------------------

	1. From the UML Editor Application main page, click on the dropdown menu located
  
  	   in the top-left corner. Select the “Create a Class” option.

	2. Click on the “Go” button. Below the “Go” button, the “Class Name” label, a field

	   to enter a class name, and an “Add” button will appear.

	3. Type a class name and click the “Enter” button.

	4. On the right panel, a class template box will appear with the class
	
	  name. The field, method, and relationship sections will be empty, as they have

	   not been added yet.

	5. To add another class, type the class name in the “Class Name” field and click
	
	   “Add”.

	6. You can add as many classes as needed; there is no limit.
	

Rename a Class:
-------------------

	1. From the UML Editor Application main page, click on the dropdown menu

	   located in the top-left corner. Select the “Rename a Class” option.

	2. Click on the “Go” button. The Rename Class Utility window will open.
	
	3. Type the current class name in the “Current Class Name” field.
	
	4. Type the new class name in the “New Class Name” field.

	5. Click the “Rename” button.

	6. On the right-hand panel, a confirmation message will display in green text,

	   confirming that the class was renamed.

	7. If no class exists or the current class name is incorrect, an error 

	   message will display in red text on the right-hand panel.

	8. Click the “X” on the top-right corner of the Rename Class Utility window to

	   close it.


Delete a Class:
------------------
	
	1. From the UML Editor Application main page, click on the dropdown menu located in

	   the top-left corner. Select the “Delete a Class” option.

	2. Click on the “Go” button. The Delete Class Utility window will open.

	3. Type the class name you want to delete in the “Class Name” field.
	
	4. Click the “Delete” button. If the class name matches an existing class, the class
	
	   will be deleted. A confirmation message will display in green text, confirming

	   the deletion.
	
	• If the class name does not match, an error message in red text will indicate

	  that the class was not found.
	
	5. Click the “X” on the top-right corner of the Delete Class Utility window to

	   close it.


Add Field(s):
---------------

	1. From the UML Editor Application main page, click on the dropdown menu located in

	   the top-left corner. Select the “Add Field(s)” option.

	2. Click on the “Go” button. Below the “Go” button, “Field” options will appear.
	
	3. Type the class name to which you want to add a field in the “Enter Class Name”

	  field.

	4. Type a field name in the “Enter Field Name” field.

	5. Select a field type from the dropdown menu.
	
	6. Click the “Add” button to add the field to the class.

	7. If the class name matches an existing class, the field will be added, and the

	  class template on the right-hand panel will update with the new field.

	8. If the class name does not match, an error message will be displayed.



Rename Field:
---------------
	
	1. From the UML Editor Application main page, click on the dropdown menu located in

	   the top-left corner. Select the “Rename Field” option.

	2. Click on the “Go” button. Field Rename Utility Window will appear.

	3- Type Class name for which you want to rename a field.

	4- Type Current field name in the "Current Field" field.

	5- Type a new name for the field in the " New Field" field.

	6- Click on "Rename" button. 
	
	  . If the class name and current field names match the
		
	    existing class name and field name a message in the text area on the right hand
	
	    side will display a confirmation message.

	   . If the class name and current field names did not match one of the existing
		
	     classes and fields, error message in the text area will display and provides.
	
	     further instructions on what to do.

Delete Field:
---------------

	1. From UML Editor Application main page, click on the dropdown menu located in

	   the top-left corner. Select the "Delete Field” option.

	2. Click on the “Go” button. Field Delete Utility Window will appear.

	3- Type Class name for which you want to delete a field.

	4- Click on "Delete" button.
	
	. If class and field names match one of the existing classes and feilds, field will
		
	  will be deleted and the Detele text area on the rigth had side pannel will display
	
	 a confirmation message.

	. If the class name and field names did not match one of the existing class and fields

	  name, an error message will be displayed in the delete field text area on the right 

	  hand side pannel with instructions about the error.

 

Add Method(s):
---------------

	1. From UML Editor Application main page, click on the dropdown menu located in

	   the top-left corner. Select the "Add Method(s)” option.

	2. Click on the “Go” button. Method Add option will appear below "Go" button.

	3- Type Class name to add method to.

	4- Type a mthod name
	
	5- Select method type from the dropdown menu
	
	6- Type parameter name for this method (otptional)
	
	7- Select parameter teyp from the dropdown menu

	4- Click on " + " pluss button to add the paramet to specified class.



Rename Method:
---------------

	1. From UML Editor Application main page, click on the dropdown menu located in

	   the top-left corner. Select the "Rename Method” option.

	2. Click on the “Go” button. Rename Method Utility Window will appear.

	3- Type class name for which you want to rename the method in the class name field.

	4- Type current method in the current method field.

	5- Type new method name in the new method field.

	6- Click "Rename" button to rename the method.

	. If class name and current method names match one of the existing class and methods 
	
	  name, method will be renamed and a confirmation message will be displayed on the

	  right hand side pannel in rename method text rea.

	. If the class name and method name did not match one of the existing class and method
	 
          names an error message will appear in the right hand side pannel in the rename

	  method text area showing detailed instrutions.

Delete Method:
---------------

	1. From UML Editor Application main page, click on the dropdown menu located in

	   the top-left corner. Select the "Delete Method” option.

	2. Click on the “Go” button. Delete Method Utility Window will appear.

	3- Type class name for which you want to delete a method in the class name field.

	4- Type   method name in the current method field.


	5- Click "Delete" button to delete the method from the specific class.

	. If class name and method names match one of the existing class and methods 
	
	  name, method will be deleted and a confirmation message will be displayed on the

	  right hand side pannel in rename method text rea.

	. If the class name and method name did not match one of the existing class and method
	 
          names an error message will appear in the right hand side pannel in the delete

	  method text area showing detailed instrutions.
 

Add Relationship:
-------------------
	1. From the UML Editor Application main page, click on the dropdown menu located in

	   the top-left corner. Select the “Add Relationship” option.

	2- Relationships option will apear below the"Go" button.

	3- Select Relationships type from the dropdown menu. 
	
	4- Type the name of the source class in the src class field.

	5- Type the name of the destinationi class in the dest class field.

	6- Click on "Add" button to add relationship to the class.

	7- Relationship arrow will appear bewtween those classes.


Save File:
-------------

	1. From the UML Editor Application main page, click on the dropdown menu
	
	   located in the top-left corner. Select the “Save File” option.

	2. Click on the “Go” button. The Save File Utility window will open.

	3. Type a file name and click the “Save” button.
	
	4. The file will be saved, and the file path will be displayed in the text area on

	   the right-hand panel.

	5. Click the “X” on the top-right corner of the Save File Utility window to close it.

Save as Image:
----------------
	1. From the UML Editor Application main page, click on file menu
	
	2. Select the “Save as Image” option.

	3. Select a location to save the screenshot of the application.

	4. Type a name for the image.

	5. Click on "Save" button to save the image.

Help:
-------

	1. From the UML Editor Application main page, click on the dropdown menu located in

	  the top-left corner. Select the “Help” option.
	
	2. Click on the “Go” button. Instructions and additional details will display in the

	  text area on the right-hand panel.




--------------------------------------------------------------------
School:          Eastern Washington University
Course:         CSCD 350: Software Development
Instructor:    Dr. Chris Cain
Qaurter:        Fall 2024
Course:         CSCD 350, Priciple of Software Engineering
Assignment:  Class Project (UML Editor CLI & GUI)

Contributors / Student developers:

1- Colton Knopik
2- Kate Steeley
3- Shane
5- Danish Wahidi
6- Michelle Ulabita
7- Jimmy (first 2 sprints)

--------------------------------------------------------------------




• Add Parameter: Still in development for GUI.
• Rename Parameter: Still in development for GUI.
• Delete Parameter: Still in development for GUI.
 
